architecture/code_analysis_v3/REQUIREMENT_ANALYSIS.md, before:

It is necessary to install `draw.io` extension to edit the files

# **Phase 1: Requirements Analysis & Scope Definition**  
1. **Elicit Functional Requirements**  
- Core entities: represent the main `nouns` present in the requirements
- States: represents the state for each core entity
- Actions: represent the actions each entity can do or suffer

## Missing requiements mapped during the code analysis
- Subject does not have a minimum students: found while implementing the state machine of the Course. In the `SequenceCore diagram` the Subject notifies the Course when it reaches the minimum number of students. The value was set to 3
- The minimun number of students per Course can not be 100: found while validating the state transation of the Course to InProgress. The minimum number of Subjects is 3 and each one need to have at least 3 students, so the minimun number of students to a course should be 9
- Teacher basic information not set: found during improving the logging to show the Teacher added to a Subject. The Teacher does not have name, id or other basic information. Added on-demand
- Teacher can set grade to ~~locked~~ Cancelled Subject: found while reviewing the SequenceDiagram. Added a restriction to let the Teacher set grades just for Subjects with state 'in progress'
- The Teacher need to select the Course first, be approved in a exame and them the Course Coordinator adds the Teacher to the course. Once the Teacher is in a Course, it can not change it. Found it while building the interface of the Controllers
- The Student can not change its Course once it is set. Found during the build of the Controller
- The details of the Controller was not defined in the architecture. While building the interface of the Controllers, it was convenient to use the `nui` of each Component and not the instances. The user can search the desired `nui`s and use them
- It was not defined the feature to let the Teacher to search of the Subjects of its Course. Found during building the interface of the Controlllers
- When the Student is not able to conclude the Course, for exampe, if they give up, the Student shouldn't be removed from the history, but should be incativated (end of lifecycle in the system). If they are incative, they can not start the Course. It is necessary a new approval in the exame (the whole cycle) and the Student receives a new `nui`. Found it while reviewing the state machine architecture.
- Whent the Teacher give up the Course, they has to be stated as Inactive (end of lifecycle in the system). If they are inactive, they ned to do a new exame and receive a new `nui`. Found while reviewing the State Diagrams
- Each Subject should have a final state like Finished to indicate it was finished in a given Semester. Found it while reviewing the State Machines
- On each Semester, the Subject should have a new `nui` to differentiate the new and old (finished) Subjects. Found while reviewing the State Machines
- Student transition state to InProgress: the Student need to be set with a dummy initial state when it is not enrolled to any course or subscribed to a minimum subjects
- Delimitation of state changes considering the Semesters: the state of the Student, Course, Teacher and Subject has to be calculated in the beginning and at the end of the Semester. For example, if the Student does not have the minimum Subjects per Semeters, but the Semester does not started yet, then the Student still have time to add more Subjects to the their list. Found it while implementing the Student State Machine and reviewing the State Digrams
- The Cancell and Lock status can be set on-demand: The Student can ask the Locking of its Course at any time, the Course can be Cancelled by many reasons as the Subject. Found it while reviewing the State Machine
- The Course is 'in progress' when has minimum 'in progress' Students and Subjects: found while reviewing the Cource State machine and implementing the class
- The Subject is 'in progress' when has minimum 'in progress' Students: found while reviewing the Cource State machine and implementing the Course class
- Courses does not have maximum students: The universisty has a limit of Students for Course given to phisical constraints (not applicable for virtual Courses). Set the value to 900 ((maximum subjects in a course) * (maximum students in a subject)). Found while build test cases to `Course.accept_subject` methood
- Courses does not have maximum subjects: The course has a limit of Subjects given the total number of Semesters and the limiations of available time of Students. Set the value to 30. For example, if the Course has 10 Semesters (5 years) it is fair to have an average of 5 or 6 Subjects by Semester. Found while build test cases to `Course.accept_subject` methood


## Core Entities
### Administrator
#### Actions
- list all Students
- list all Courses
- list Student per Course
- list Subjects per Student
- list all Course Coordinator 


### Coordinator
#### State
- do not coordinate Courses
- coordinate less than the maximum Courses
- coordinate maximum Courses,
- coordinates more tham the maximum value of Courses
#### Actions
- coordinate
- list students of their Courses
- list subjects of their Courses
- list grades of their Courses
- list GPA of their Courses
- authenticate

### Coordinator's Report
### Course
#### State
- locked
- unlocked
- cancelled
- not cancelled
- has Coordinator
- does not have Coordinator
- has minimun Subject
- does not have minumum Subjects
- has minimum Students
- does not have minimum Students

### Course Coordinator
#### Actions
- list students
- list grades of Subjects
- list GPA of Students
- remove Subjects
- accept Student
- do not accept Student-
- add Subject to their Course

### Course Unique Identifier
### External CPF validation Sytem (Government System)
### Enrollment List
### General Coordinator
#### State
- is coordinator of Course (forbiden)
- is not Coordinator of Course

#### Actions
- list all Courses
- list Students
- list Grades of Subjects
- list GPA of Students
- cancel Course
- create Course
- open Semester
- close Semester
- add Student to Enrollment List
- analise Student Documentation?
- add Course to University

### Grade Control (GPA) (Grade?)
#### State
- under minimum value
- between minimum and maximum values
- above maximum value
- can update
- can not upate

### Semester
### Student
#### State
- is not enrolled in maximum Subject
- enrolled in maximum Subject
- approved
- reproved (failed)
- enrolled
- not enrolled
- has missing Subjects
- does not have missing Subjects
- has maximum Semester
- does not have maximum Semeter
#### Actions
- lock the Course
- update Grades
- enroll in Course
- create Student
- list all their Subjects by Course
- list all taken Subjects
- (do not) take Subject?
- list missing Subjects
- authenticate

### Student Grade
### Student Credential
### Student History

### Subject
#### State
- can update
- can not update
- has minimum enrolled Students
- does not have minimum enrolled Students
- has enrolled Students over the maximum value
- locked
- unlocked

### Subject Unique Identifier
### Student's Situation
### Student Documentation
### System
### Units

### University
#### State
- does not have Courses
- does not have Subcjets
- has maximum Courses
- has maximum Subjects
- does not have maximum Courses
- does not have maximum Subjects 

### Teacher
#### Actions
- set the Grade of Students in their Subject
- teach maximum Subject
- does not teach maximum Subject
- authenticate

### Teacher Credential
### Coordinator Credential

2. **Non-Functional Requirements (NFRs)** 
No specific requirements. Just the authentication is necessary

3. **Prioritize with Stakeholders**
The core modules (Student, Teaching) are going to be developed first
## Deliverables
### Must Have
1. Each student will have a grade control called "grade point average" (GPA).
2. The GPA is the average of the student's grades in the subjects already taken.
3. The student is considered approved at the university if their GPA is above or equal to 7 (seven) at the end of the course.
4. If a student takes the same subject more than once, the highest grade will be considered in the GPA calculation.
5. Initially, the university will have 3 courses with 3 subjects each.
6. Subjects in each course may have the same names but will be differentiated by a unique identifier (niu).
7. The system must calculate the student's situation taking into account the subjects taken and the total number of subjects in each course.
8. The student can only take subjects from their course.
9. Courses must have a unique identifier and name.
12. The maximum grade for a student in a subject is 10.
13. The minimum grade for a student in a subject is 0.
14. The student can lock the course, and in this case, they cannot update their grades or the subjects taken.
17. Students must have names.
20. Students can only update their grades in the subjects they are enrolled in.
21. Course and subject names must have a maximum of 10 letters.
29. Each subject can have a maximum of 30 enrolled students.
30. The student must enroll in a minimum of 3 subjects.
31. If the number of subjects missing for a student is less than 3, they can enroll in 1 subject.
35. The students are only approved if they achieve the minimum grade in all course subjects, even if their GPA is above the minimum.
36. The student (person) must be able to create students with basic information.
43. The students must be able to list all subjects only from their course.
44. The students must be able to list all subjects they have taken.
45. The students must be able to list the missing subjects.
51. The teacher sets thes grade for all students of his/her subjects
52. Each teacher may teach in 3 subjects at maximum

### Should Have
15.  The course coordinator can list the students, grades in each subject, and GPAs of the students.
18. The general coordinator can list all courses, students, grades in each subject, and GPAs of each student.
19. The course coordinator can remove subjects, and in this case, students cannot update their grades in that subject.
22. Courses can have the same names if they are from different units.
<!-- Dispite of the description, the user does not enroll to a course. They need select the course first, be approved in an exame, present the required and then the Course Coordinator adds the Student to the course.
documentation and then the C  -->
23. The student can only enroll in one course.
24. The coordinator can coordinate a maximum of three courses.
25. The coordinator can list the students, subjects, grades, and GPAs of all their courses (coordinator of more than one course).
26. The course can be canceled by the general cordinator.
27. Canceled courses cannot accept student enrollments.
28. Canceled courses cannot have coordinators.
34. Add the course name to the coordinator's reports.
33. The student must have a validated CPF (Brazilian Social Security Number) in the external CPF validation system (government system).
32. If the student does not enroll in the minimum number of subjects per semester, they will be automatically locked.
38. The general coordinator must be able to create courses with the minimum number of subjects.
39. The administrator, and only the administrator, must be able to list all students with detailed information (all available information).
40. The administrator, and only the administrator, must be able to list all courses with all available information.
41. The administrator, and only the administrator, must be able to list the list of students per course.
42. The administrator, and only the administrator, must be able to list the list of subjects per student.
46. The administrator must be able to list all course coordinators with available information.
47. The student has 10 semesters to graduate.
48. If the student exceeds the 10 semesters, they are automatically failed.
50. The general coordinator cannot be a coordinator of courses.
53. The general coordinator is responsible to open and close the semesters
54. The general coordinator is responible to add students to enrollment list after manual analysis of thier documentation
55. The corse coordinator is responsible to add new subjects to his/her course
56. The general coordinator is responsible to add new courses to the university
57. The student, teacher and coordinators need to authenticate with valid credentials before perfom any action in the system
58. The course need a minimum enrollment of 100 students
59. The subject need a minimum enrollment of 10 students
60. Student can enroll to course again after fail it losing all his/her history


# **Phase 2: High-Level Architecture (HLA)**  

1. **Define Architectural Style**  
Layered: CLI (Presentation) -> Controller -> Business Logic -> Data. All in a monolitic system

2. **Component Diagram**
[architecture.phase 1](./components-phase1.drawio)

3. **External Integrations**  
Integrated with fake components simulating the authenticator and the CPF validator

4. **Deployment View** 
No deployment. Will run locally in localhost

# **Phase 3: Mid-Level Design**  
1. **API Contracts**  
No REST API

2. **Data Flow architecture.*  
[architecture.phase 1](./components-phase1.drawio)

3. **Database Schema**
Not necessary. It will be used an in-memory database for simplicity

4. **State Transitions**  
[architecture.phase 1](./components-phase1.drawio)

5. **Security Design**  
Just fake authentication

# **Phase 4: Low-Level Design (LLD)**  
1. **Class architecture.*  
Check Phase1. Each Action will be mapped to a method  

2. **Algorithmic Logic**
Already in requirements and state diagrams


3. **Error Handling**  
Very permissive. No loggin

4. **Testability Hooks**  
Dependency injection of database
External components will be mocked

---

# **Phase 5: Cross-Cutting Concerns**  
1. **Logging**  
   Not applicable  

2. **Monitoring**  
    Not applicable  

3. **CI/CD Pipeline**  
    Not applicable

---

# **Phase 6: Validation & Feedback**  
*(Audience: Product Owners + Testers)*  

1. **Architecture Review**  
   - Walkthrough with developers (validate feasibility).  
   - Threat modeling (e.g., student impersonation attacks).  

2. **Prototyping**  
   - Spike: Implement auth flow + grade submission to test performance.  

3. **Documentation**  
   - HLA: C4 Model (Context, Containers, Components).  
   - LLD: Swagger for APIs, ER architecture.for DB.

Commit message:

Tests og GSS partially finished

architecture/code_analysis_v3/REQUIREMENT_ANALYSIS.md, after:

It is necessary to install `draw.io` extension to edit the files

# **Phase 1: Requirements Analysis & Scope Definition**  
1. **Elicit Functional Requirements**  
- Core entities: represent the main `nouns` present in the requirements
- States: represents the state for each core entity
- Actions: represent the actions each entity can do or suffer

## Missing requiements mapped during the code analysis
- Subject does not have a minimum students: found while implementing the state machine of the Course. In the `SequenceCore diagram` the Subject notifies the Course when it reaches the minimum number of students. The value was set to 3
- The minimun number of students per Course can not be 100: found while validating the state transation of the Course to InProgress. The minimum number of Subjects is 3 and each one need to have at least 3 students, so the minimun number of students to a course should be 9
- Teacher basic information not set: found during improving the logging to show the Teacher added to a Subject. The Teacher does not have name, id or other basic information. Added on-demand
- Teacher can set grade to ~~locked~~ Cancelled Subject: found while reviewing the SequenceDiagram. Added a restriction to let the Teacher set grades just for Subjects with state 'in progress'
- The Teacher need to select the Course first, be approved in a exame and them the Course Coordinator adds the Teacher to the course. Once the Teacher is in a Course, it can not change it. Found it while building the interface of the Controllers
- The Student can not change its Course once it is set. Found during the build of the Controller
- The details of the Controller was not defined in the architecture. While building the interface of the Controllers, it was convenient to use the `nui` of each Component and not the instances. The user can search the desired `nui`s and use them
- It was not defined the feature to let the Teacher to search of the Subjects of its Course. Found during building the interface of the Controlllers
- When the Student is not able to conclude the Course, for exampe, if they give up, the Student shouldn't be removed from the history, but should be incativated (end of lifecycle in the system). If they are incative, they can not start the Course. It is necessary a new approval in the exame (the whole cycle) and the Student receives a new `nui`. Found it while reviewing the state machine architecture.
- Whent the Teacher give up the Course, they has to be stated as Inactive (end of lifecycle in the system). If they are inactive, they ned to do a new exame and receive a new `nui`. Found while reviewing the State Diagrams
- Each Subject should have a final state like Finished to indicate it was finished in a given Semester. Found it while reviewing the State Machines
- On each Semester, the Subject should have a new `nui` to differentiate the new and old (finished) Subjects. Found while reviewing the State Machines
- Student transition state to InProgress: the Student need to be set with a dummy initial state when it is not enrolled to any course or subscribed to a minimum subjects
- Delimitation of state changes considering the Semesters: the state of the Student, Course, Teacher and Subject has to be calculated in the beginning and at the end of the Semester. For example, if the Student does not have the minimum Subjects per Semeters, but the Semester does not started yet, then the Student still have time to add more Subjects to the their list. Found it while implementing the Student State Machine and reviewing the State Digrams
- The Cancell and Lock status can be set on-demand: The Student can ask the Locking of its Course at any time, the Course can be Cancelled by many reasons as the Subject. Found it while reviewing the State Machine
- The Course is 'in progress' when has minimum 'in progress' Students and Subjects: found while reviewing the Cource State machine and implementing the class
- The Subject is 'in progress' when has minimum 'in progress' Students: found while reviewing the Cource State machine and implementing the Course class
- Courses does not have maximum students: The universisty has a limit of Students for Course given to phisical constraints (not applicable for virtual Courses). Set the value to 900 ((maximum subjects in a course) * (maximum students in a subject)). Found while build test cases to `Course.accept_subject` methood
- Courses does not have maximum subjects: The course has a limit of Subjects given the total number of Semesters and the limiations of available time of Students. Set the value to 30. For example, if the Course has 10 Semesters (5 years) it is fair to have an average of 5 or 6 Subjects by Semester. Found while build test cases to `Course.accept_subject` methood
- Allowed Actions for each object state not efined in the diagrams: found while implementing the tests to `Teacher.set_gss`. For each State it is imporant to defined the allowed and not allowed actions. For example, Teacher can set GSS only when working 

## Core Entities
### Administrator
#### Actions
- list all Students
- list all Courses
- list Student per Course
- list Subjects per Student
- list all Course Coordinator 


### Coordinator
#### State
- do not coordinate Courses
- coordinate less than the maximum Courses
- coordinate maximum Courses,
- coordinates more tham the maximum value of Courses
#### Actions
- coordinate
- list students of their Courses
- list subjects of their Courses
- list grades of their Courses
- list GPA of their Courses
- authenticate

### Coordinator's Report
### Course
#### State
- locked
- unlocked
- cancelled
- not cancelled
- has Coordinator
- does not have Coordinator
- has minimun Subject
- does not have minumum Subjects
- has minimum Students
- does not have minimum Students

### Course Coordinator
#### Actions
- list students
- list grades of Subjects
- list GPA of Students
- remove Subjects
- accept Student
- do not accept Student-
- add Subject to their Course

### Course Unique Identifier
### External CPF validation Sytem (Government System)
### Enrollment List
### General Coordinator
#### State
- is coordinator of Course (forbiden)
- is not Coordinator of Course

#### Actions
- list all Courses
- list Students
- list Grades of Subjects
- list GPA of Students
- cancel Course
- create Course
- open Semester
- close Semester
- add Student to Enrollment List
- analise Student Documentation?
- add Course to University

### Grade Control (GPA) (Grade?)
#### State
- under minimum value
- between minimum and maximum values
- above maximum value
- can update
- can not upate

### Semester
### Student
#### State
- is not enrolled in maximum Subject
- enrolled in maximum Subject
- approved
- reproved (failed)
- enrolled
- not enrolled
- has missing Subjects
- does not have missing Subjects
- has maximum Semester
- does not have maximum Semeter
#### Actions
- lock the Course
- update Grades
- enroll in Course
- create Student
- list all their Subjects by Course
- list all taken Subjects
- (do not) take Subject?
- list missing Subjects
- authenticate

### Student Grade
### Student Credential
### Student History

### Subject
#### State
- can update
- can not update
- has minimum enrolled Students
- does not have minimum enrolled Students
- has enrolled Students over the maximum value
- locked
- unlocked

### Subject Unique Identifier
### Student's Situation
### Student Documentation
### System
### Units

### University
#### State
- does not have Courses
- does not have Subcjets
- has maximum Courses
- has maximum Subjects
- does not have maximum Courses
- does not have maximum Subjects 

### Teacher
#### Actions
- set the Grade of Students in their Subject
- teach maximum Subject
- does not teach maximum Subject
- authenticate

### Teacher Credential
### Coordinator Credential

2. **Non-Functional Requirements (NFRs)** 
No specific requirements. Just the authentication is necessary

3. **Prioritize with Stakeholders**
The core modules (Student, Teaching) are going to be developed first
## Deliverables
### Must Have
1. Each student will have a grade control called "grade point average" (GPA).
2. The GPA is the average of the student's grades in the subjects already taken.
3. The student is considered approved at the university if their GPA is above or equal to 7 (seven) at the end of the course.
4. If a student takes the same subject more than once, the highest grade will be considered in the GPA calculation.
5. Initially, the university will have 3 courses with 3 subjects each.
6. Subjects in each course may have the same names but will be differentiated by a unique identifier (niu).
7. The system must calculate the student's situation taking into account the subjects taken and the total number of subjects in each course.
8. The student can only take subjects from their course.
9. Courses must have a unique identifier and name.
12. The maximum grade for a student in a subject is 10.
13. The minimum grade for a student in a subject is 0.
14. The student can lock the course, and in this case, they cannot update their grades or the subjects taken.
17. Students must have names.
20. Students can only update their grades in the subjects they are enrolled in.
21. Course and subject names must have a maximum of 10 letters.
29. Each subject can have a maximum of 30 enrolled students.
30. The student must enroll in a minimum of 3 subjects.
31. If the number of subjects missing for a student is less than 3, they can enroll in 1 subject.
35. The students are only approved if they achieve the minimum grade in all course subjects, even if their GPA is above the minimum.
36. The student (person) must be able to create students with basic information.
43. The students must be able to list all subjects only from their course.
44. The students must be able to list all subjects they have taken.
45. The students must be able to list the missing subjects.
51. The teacher sets thes grade for all students of his/her subjects
52. Each teacher may teach in 3 subjects at maximum

### Should Have
15.  The course coordinator can list the students, grades in each subject, and GPAs of the students.
18. The general coordinator can list all courses, students, grades in each subject, and GPAs of each student.
19. The course coordinator can remove subjects, and in this case, students cannot update their grades in that subject.
22. Courses can have the same names if they are from different units.
<!-- Dispite of the description, the user does not enroll to a course. They need select the course first, be approved in an exame, present the required and then the Course Coordinator adds the Student to the course.
documentation and then the C  -->
23. The student can only enroll in one course.
24. The coordinator can coordinate a maximum of three courses.
25. The coordinator can list the students, subjects, grades, and GPAs of all their courses (coordinator of more than one course).
26. The course can be canceled by the general cordinator.
27. Canceled courses cannot accept student enrollments.
28. Canceled courses cannot have coordinators.
34. Add the course name to the coordinator's reports.
33. The student must have a validated CPF (Brazilian Social Security Number) in the external CPF validation system (government system).
32. If the student does not enroll in the minimum number of subjects per semester, they will be automatically locked.
38. The general coordinator must be able to create courses with the minimum number of subjects.
39. The administrator, and only the administrator, must be able to list all students with detailed information (all available information).
40. The administrator, and only the administrator, must be able to list all courses with all available information.
41. The administrator, and only the administrator, must be able to list the list of students per course.
42. The administrator, and only the administrator, must be able to list the list of subjects per student.
46. The administrator must be able to list all course coordinators with available information.
47. The student has 10 semesters to graduate.
48. If the student exceeds the 10 semesters, they are automatically failed.
50. The general coordinator cannot be a coordinator of courses.
53. The general coordinator is responsible to open and close the semesters
54. The general coordinator is responible to add students to enrollment list after manual analysis of thier documentation
55. The corse coordinator is responsible to add new subjects to his/her course
56. The general coordinator is responsible to add new courses to the university
57. The student, teacher and coordinators need to authenticate with valid credentials before perfom any action in the system
58. The course need a minimum enrollment of 100 students
59. The subject need a minimum enrollment of 10 students
60. Student can enroll to course again after fail it losing all his/her history


# **Phase 2: High-Level Architecture (HLA)**  

1. **Define Architectural Style**  
Layered: CLI (Presentation) -> Controller -> Business Logic -> Data. All in a monolitic system

2. **Component Diagram**
[architecture.phase 1](./components-phase1.drawio)

3. **External Integrations**  
Integrated with fake components simulating the authenticator and the CPF validator

4. **Deployment View** 
No deployment. Will run locally in localhost

# **Phase 3: Mid-Level Design**  
1. **API Contracts**  
No REST API

2. **Data Flow architecture.*  
[architecture.phase 1](./components-phase1.drawio)

3. **Database Schema**
Not necessary. It will be used an in-memory database for simplicity

4. **State Transitions**  
[architecture.phase 1](./components-phase1.drawio)

5. **Security Design**  
Just fake authentication

# **Phase 4: Low-Level Design (LLD)**  
1. **Class architecture.*  
Check Phase1. Each Action will be mapped to a method  

2. **Algorithmic Logic**
Already in requirements and state diagrams


3. **Error Handling**  
Very permissive. No loggin

4. **Testability Hooks**  
Dependency injection of database
External components will be mocked

---

# **Phase 5: Cross-Cutting Concerns**  
1. **Logging**  
   Not applicable  

2. **Monitoring**  
    Not applicable  

3. **CI/CD Pipeline**  
    Not applicable

---

# **Phase 6: Validation & Feedback**  
*(Audience: Product Owners + Testers)*  

1. **Architecture Review**  
   - Walkthrough with developers (validate feasibility).  
   - Threat modeling (e.g., student impersonation attacks).  

2. **Prototyping**  
   - Spike: Implement auth flow + grade submission to test performance.  

3. **Documentation**  
   - HLA: C4 Model (Context, Containers, Components).  
   - LLD: Swagger for APIs, ER architecture.for DB.
